---
title:  The smurfs were communists...
layout: note
date: 2011-05-18 00:37:00
---

07:40 < kanzure> i have been pondering reorgs...

07:40 < kanzure> imagine that an attacker deposits into some bitcoin service (not necessarily an exchange), then withdraws where the service does not make a withdrawal based on other unspent outputs unrelated to the deposit.

07:40 < kanzure> in the event of a reorg, the attacker could try to mine a block that does not include the deposit, but does include the withdrawal.

07:40 < kanzure> so it seems like the only way to defend against this is to always only allow withdraws based on unspents that have referenced the original deposit in their history somewhere (it can be either the immediate prevout or any  in the history). but other than that, i can't think of a way to defend against this.

07:42 < kanzure> oops instead of "then withdraws where the service does not make a withdrawal based on other unspent outputs unrelated to the deposit" i mean "then withdraws where the service does not make a withdrawal transaction based on the deposited unspent outputs"

07:42 <@andytoshi> kanzure: mining the withdrawal wouldn't prevent someone else mining the deposit right?

07:42 <@andytoshi> so it's actually a harder attack to pull off because you aren't preventing the honest case from happening?

07:43 < kanzure> er, let me clarify

07:43 < kanzure> i mean that the deposit no longer exists in the blockchain after the reorg

07:43 < kanzure> but the withdrawal does

07:44 < kanzure> my idea for preventing this is to make all withdrawals (per user) always reference every single one of their deposits somehow (even if their deposits were spent some other way? i dunno.) one way to do this would be to always keep at least 1 satoshi for their deposits to couple to future withdrawals. so if their deposits ever vanish, then their withdrawals by definition must vanish.

07:45 <@andytoshi> yeah, in bitcoin i think to reference all deposits like this you'd have to have them as inputs

07:45 <@andytoshi> which is gonna scale really badly

07:45 < kanzure> i think it's just "as long as the inputs 'touch it' somehow" really-- it doesn't have to be a huge list of inputs, just 1 i think

07:45 <@andytoshi> ah, no, you could consolidate all deposits, then just reference the consolidated out..

07:45 < kanzure> right

07:45 <@andytoshi> yup

07:46 <@andytoshi> still seems more wasteful than it inprinciple needs to be

07:46 <@andytoshi> but i think that's best you can do with bitcoin

07:46 < kanzure> so per-user there must be a consolidated output transaction, and there must be at least 1 satoshi remaining of
that consolidated balance, i think? and the other balance can be sent anywhere else.

07:46 < kanzure> yeah i mean i see no alternative to this

07:46 < kanzure> otherwise you will absolutely lose bitcoin in a reorg


