---
layout: post
title: Concerning the IFP
---

The [Bitcoin Cash Infastructurer Funding Plan](https://coinspice.io/news/bitcoin-abc-will-implement-bitcoin-cash-infrastructure-fund-of-5-during-may-15-2020-upgrade/) needs to be defeated. While there were one or two decent ideas in the original proposal, the shenanigans by ABC have proven that this is little more than a short-sighted cash grab that will turn Bitcoin Cash into an irrelevant altcoin (if it has not become that already through their actions in the SV split).

## What I like about the IFP

**Developers should get paid.** It makes no sense to boostrap what is attempting to be *the* world's global digital currency with a group of unpaid or donor funded hobbyists. 

**I loved the fait accompli tone of the original proposal.** It refreshing in a generally timid industry obsessed with consulting every Reddit user for their opinion. I suspect much of the current anti-IFP and anti-ABC rhetoric comes from outrage that Jiang Zhouer and ABC didn't ask permission first. But why should the miners ask permission? Bitcoin is not ruled by democratic vote, Twitter poll or Telegram consensus. Bitcoin is capitalist and decisions are thus made by miners who put up the capital investment to secure the network and validate transactions.

**It demonstrates strong corporate interest in beind more involved.** Unlike many in Bitcoin Cash, I don't believe the lesson of the Blockstream takeover in Bitcoin is "corporations are bad." Bitcoin has always been capitalist and Satoshi was clear in his writings that he intended large corporations to specialise and direct the security of the network. Bitcoin is not a hobby project.

## What I don't like about the IFP

**ABC is falsly marketing the IFP and slandering opposition.** The claim that if you do not support the IFP, you just want free developer labor is a strawman. Nobody, least of all me, thinks developers shouldn't get paid. The question is whether or not we are willing to alter the protocol to do so. The dishonesty in their presentation makes me think ABC is acting in bad faith.

**Rebates kill the IFP funding model.** Because the IFP requires all miners to donate a fixed percentage of coins each block to one project on a set list of projects, the incentive for any enterprising project is to offer a rebate to miners who send their donation to them, undercutting the other projects and giving a competitive advantage to any miner who chooses them. Once that bidding war starts though, it is a raise to the bottom.

**Developers shouldn't set the agenda and donations shouldn't be open ended.** This would create the incentive for developers to find stuff to do in order to justify more donations. Forking over a pot of money and then saying “figure out something useful to do” is a very smart way to get useful things done. This seems to be a recipe for the kind of money grubbing and inefficiencies you see in D.C. non-profits, public works projects, and grad-school programs. Developers have the incentive to try bloat the budget as much as possible to get as much as the common fund as they can. It could easily turn into a slush-fund boondoggle for developers, a sort of universal basic income for them that gives them more leeway to turn Bitcoin Cash into science project instead of the tight leash and collar with clear success metrics it should be. 

**Developers should be employees.** It is clear by now that expecting developers to play entrepreneur, capitalist, and worker does not work. ABC should do what it does best and write code, but with this latest IFP attempt, they have bitten off more than they can handle. Their inability to effectively communicate their vision, their incompetence at understanding the long-range economic consequences of their activities, and their failure to raise funds from private individuals and enterprises tells me that they are not good at managing the "business" of node development. That is fine. Many talented technical individuals can't run a technical business, but in pretending they can, ABC has become a threat to Bitcoin Cash. I would like to see some kind of IFP directed by miners who hire and employ ABC's developers and *tell them what to do.*

