---
layout: note
date: 2020-05-13
reply: https://www.reddit.com/r/btc/comments/gj50io/on_hodling/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x
excerpt: It's really unfortunate the Core cabal tarnished the good name of hodling and capital savings with the outrageous lie that "because hodling is good, you shouldn't be able to spend your Bitcoin easily and cheaply."
---

It's really unfortunate the Core cabal tarnished the good name of hodling and capital savings with the outrageous lie that "because hodling is good, you shouldn't be able to spend your Bitcoin easily and cheaply."

The ability to plan long-term, "hodl" and forgo consumption now for significantly more consumption in the future is one of the things that separates us from caveman. All economic progress depends on it.

It's often repeated in big-block communities that we should be spending our Bitcoin Cash to support the Bitcoin Cash ecosystem, but this is only true insofar as our spending actually economically serves our own individual needs. Otherwise we're just shifting money from a more productive use to a less productive one.

Keep in mind that a satoshi spent today is a satoshi you cannot spend tomorrow, so spending on Bitcoin Cash businesses for altruistic reasons only props up a less viable company at the expense of our own future productivity or future companies in the Bitcoin economy. No new wealth is necessarily created, it's just shifted around.

The reality is that because Bitcoin is more useful and more valuable to most of us than USD, and because it is deflationary by design, Bitcoin businesses need to work harder to convince us to spend our Bitcoin than any business has to work to convince us to spend USD.

That means either a far better product or service than is currently available with USD, novel use cases that can't be achieved without Bitcoin like more privacy, limited or no KYC, micropayments, grey markets, etc, or discounts/cash-back that can't be matched with USD due to the costs of intermediation.

Besides that, I'll be hoarding Bitcoin and you can't have any! ;)
